Welcome back everyone.
We're going to continue where we left off last time by finishing up the user reviews and templates and
we'll also test a little bit just to make sure everything is connected properly.
Let's continue.
All right.
Here we are back where we left off.
So far we've done the registration page.
The log in page as well as the log out page.
So we have those three components ready to go.
Now what we want to focus on is the account page as well as setting up just the basic connection to
the users list of blog posts.
We haven't actually created any blog posts as far as anything beyond the models that pie.
So we'll go ahead and kind of focus on more on the account and setting that up.
So let's get started with that.
So for the accounts page this really is kind of just there update the user forum page.
We're going to do is two things we're going to say users route and we'll say forward slash accounts.
And then we'll have those methods GO TO GET and POST
and then we're also going to do is in order to actually see the account page you're going to have to
be logged in because it's essentially an update form.
We don't want someone to be able to update someone else's information.
So we're going to have one more decorator here and have it be the log in required decorator and then
we'll just call this view the account view and the form we're going to set up.
Here is the update user form that we created a couple lectures ago.
I will say if this form is validate on submit then we're going to do two things.
Mainly we're going to be handling that picture upload.
So if the form picture data colon.
So this looks a little weird Salom explain it.
We're going to see if they actually uploaded some picture data.
So that's what this is statement's doing.
Then we'll say that the user name is equal to the current user username and that the picture object
is equal to add profile pic form picture data and then username.
All right.
So let's kind of break down what's happening here because with just these two lines of code we're actually
doing a lot.
Let's look back at what update user forum actually was.
We come back to forms that pi and we go to our update user form.
Remember we have this picture attribute which is a file field that allows someone to upload either a
peg or a PMG file.
So what's happening here is if they actually submitted something to that picture file field then this
if statement gets activated.
This essentially says yes there was some data in that picture attribute that all we're going to do is
we're going to grab the current user's username and then we're going to say go ahead and add that profile
pic essentially grab that actual data from the picture that Jay Pagar piano file and then grab their
username and pass that into the ad profile pic function which if you remember we imported from picture
handler that PI this file right here.
And that's the function that we're using at pro profile pic with the picture upload and the username.
And this automatically renames the file saves it for us and then saves it as also a thumbnail so it
sets the size as well.
So it does a lot of stuff for us.
That's essentially what we're doing here in line 71 using that picture handler that PI file.
Then once we've done all that we're going to grab the current user will do that by saying current user
says Current User and we'll grab their profile image.
So if you go back to models up high remember the actual user has a profile image attribute which is
just the actual name or string of the static DNG file or JPEG file.
So then we'll say profile image is now equal to pick which is what the ad profile pic returns for Comeback
picture handler.
Remember it's actually returning the storage file name.
So that's essentially just a string that looks something like username TNG.
So that is going to be the file path so we can then link here in views that pi to that profile image.
So I'm going to delete that line right here of the comments and then come back to views that hi.
So now we set the profile image for the user and let's finish the rest of the submission.
So we'll see if foreigns valid submit we have the special thing.
If there's actually picture data meaning if they actually upload a file everything else will just reset
their user name and email in case they want to change those as well.
We'll say current user their user name is equal to the form that username that data and then we'll say
the current user e-mail is equal to form e-mail that data that will take our database session and we'll
commit those changes and we can also flash the message if we want so we can say something like user
account updated.
So you can do that as well if you want to stay on the same page or alternatively you can just redirect
them to something so I can say read direct you are l4.
And in this case let's just go ahead and redirect them to their own account page so we can say something
like users make sure that the string users thought account.
And really it's up to you what you want to redirect.
So essentially someone has gone to their account page and updated their form if you want to redirect
to just like refresh the account page.
That's fine you can just redirect here or maybe you want to redirect to the home page then you could
just say redirect your four core index it's up to you what you would feel is more natural of a redirect
upon updating the user form.
Now we're also going to say the following here we're going to match in Elif to this statement.
So say Elif if the request method is equal to get then what we're going to do here is say form thought
username that data is equal to current user thought username and a form email that data is equal to
current user.
Email so that essentially says that they're not really submitting anything.
Instead we're grabbing their current username and current e-mail information.
Now the last thing I want to set up is the actual rendering of the template for their account page.
So let's see what that's going to look like.
We're going to say profile image is equal to your L4 we'll say static file name equal to profile underscore
pick's forward slash word and concatenate that with the current user's profile image.
So this is actually doing is it's going into the static folder underneath profile pics and then going
to the current profile image that's there.
So that's the default one unless they've been updated.
So we'll see a return rendered template and we'll say a count but each T.M. and on the actual account
page we're going to show the profile image for the user.
So I'll say profile image is equal to profile image and then we're actually going to pass in that form
as well will say form is equal to form.
So that means we actually need to set up this account each team template.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Remember all we're doing here is we're giving them the option to update their information whether it's
your username or email and we have some special functionality to make sure that they can upload the
picture correctly because we have to check certain things like if it's a PMG or jpg file and then we
also want to be able to grab that profile image and render it back into the account page.
So with that being done let's set up the account that HTL template.
So we'll come to this left hand tab underneath templates will create a new file and we'll call it account.
T.M. and this is the count but a small template that's going to take in the profile image of the user
as well as this update form.
So let's set it up we'll come back to account that each team.
And as always we want to make sure we extend from base HVM.
So we get that navigation bar so we can set up our block the content block and then it's really up to
you how you want to style this.
I tend to like Jumbotron especially for simple things so I'll say Jumbotron then I'll create one more
division here or another div here and all I'm going to see is just a line is equal to center and that
makes the text and the image centered inside this Jumbotron.
I mean I looked a little better when I was playing around this.
So again a lot of the styling choices will be up to you will say welcome to the page for and then we'll
grab the current user's username say user name here and then we'll we're going to do is put in their
image.
So the source for that is going to be the URL for.
And then they'll be underneath the static folder the file name should be equal to profile underscore
pick's forward slash and then concatenated with the current users the profile image.
So we don't need an alternative we could alternative to a default but we don't worry about that because
we set up that default already.
So there's a source for the actual image and let's align that center as well just in case the images
end up align Center.
We can say align is to center here.
All right.
So let me zoom out or get ourselves just a little more room so we can see what's going on the full picture.
Basically let's make sure we spot light correctly.
Basically what we've done here is for this account page you get see.
Welcome to the page for your username and then you get to see your profile image which is underneath
the static folder underneath profile pics.
The current user profile image may remember current user profile image.
It's technically not a file.
It's just the string of the actual location of that file.
The next step is to set up our form.
We're going to be passing in here I'll create a new division we'll just make this a container class.
So it's centered and then we'll start our Form object for this we don't need a class or action.
Instead all we're going to do is just give it the post method.
And as you know I like to have post all caps then we'll begin inserting the actual form components first
thing we're going to need is the hit and Ted So we have our form hit and tag and then we'll have the
form user name label and attach to that is going to be the actual user name in there and we're going
to do the same thing again except we'll do it for not just the name but for the e-mail and the picture
so I get a copy and paste that some more times.
So the next one that have user name it will be e-mail.
And the next one here will also be e-mail.
And then this one is going to be picture.
So we will say picture and then this form is also going to be picture.
And then finally we'll actually just say submit.
So I can delete that one and save form dots and then say submit.
Now I previously mentioned that we're not going to focus too much on styling but I do want to show you
an example in case you are interested in adding in Bootstrap stylings specifically the form classes
and the way you do that is if you check out the bootstrap documentation.
So we bring that image here again or excuse me the browser.
So remember if you come over to bootstrap home click on documentation and then click on components and
you scroll down eventually you'll see forms and you'll see some examples here of forms.
And basically what it is is you'll notice that bootstrap has a division.
Let me zoom in so you can see it.
It has the vision with a class called the form group.
And essentially for each component such as this e-mail address component this password address component
or this check me out component.
These are all in their separate divisions with class form group and that allows some nice spacing between
these inputs and the load as there is also classes such as form control or foreign text et cetera.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to set up these divisions for form groups as well as adding in these
classes like form control.
So let me close this and then add that in.
We won't do this for all the forms but I do want to show you an example of it in case you want to make
your forms look a little nicer with bootstrap.
So within our form tab I'm going to create a division and the class is going to be called form dash
group and that's that form dash group class so we just saw in the bootstrap documentation and what I'm
going to do is I'm going to put in each major component into its own form group.
So let me copy and paste this a couple more times.
So that's going to be for the e-mail label.
This one's going to be for the picture and then we'll have one more for the actual submit button.
And then won't want to close those divisions so let's do that as well.
So we'll close these out.
And we'll close this one out as well.
And then we'll close.
Finally the last one on the Submit button.
OK.
So now that we have everything in its own form group I'm actually going to want to make sure that the
classes themselves for the labels are also in a form group.
So the way we do that again is we just say label class is equal to form dash group and you can experiment
with the class calls yourself in case you're interested in adding in some more bootstrap class calls.
But I'm going to put this just for each label.
And then what I'm also going to do is for the actual form component such as form user name all I'm going
to do is set the class equal to form dash control.
And if you're ever wondering what these class names are.
Keep in mind I don't have these memorized.
All I do is I reference the bootstrap documentation which is the same approach.
You should be doing so going to copy and paste those class calls as well.
And then finally for this form submit that's actually just a button.
So I will set this equal to a button class.
So after looking it up in the documentation I'll choose between between primary.
So you can check out the button components to get these class names.
All right so now when I see this on an actual Web site it should look a little nicer a little more formatted
as bootstrap.
So we will do that for the other forms.
I just want to show you that you set up these divisions for each foreign component and then set up your
class calls as you see fit.
OK.
So we'll save that.
It looks like our form is looking good.
If we go back to our views up-I file we just finished our account view.
Now I want to finish off our user post view.
So we're going to use the models for blog posts in order to make sure this works.
So we'll come back here and say at users dot routes and we we're going to have here is this is going
to be the route for the actual username.
So we'll pass in a user name here.
That is how I'm using these less than and greater than signs so the user name may change depending on
the user.
And then I will say T.F. and and zoom in here just a little bit so we can get a better idea.
Let me add in some more lines to center this on the screen so I'll say DPF user posts and then that's
going to take in the user name that's passed them.
So basically before slash user number one user number two etc. basically whatever they are using it
happens to be after this we're going to want to grab the actual blog post associated with that user.
And we're also going to do is grab the page itself.
So let me show you what I mean by that.
I'm going to set a variable page and that's going to be called request dot Arc's gets.
And I'm going to pasan page one type is equal to integer.
And what this is going to allow us to later on do is cycle through user posts using pages.
So that means if I have a user that has 150 blog posts I'm not going to see all 150 at a time.
Instead we're going to use this right here of page equals along with some template work in order to
actually make sure I can cycle through the pages.
So we'll show you how to do that with bootstrap.
But right now we'll just request it in this fashion and we'll kind of keep this in the back of our minds
because this picture is not really going to be complete until we actually work on the template itself.
So make sure you remember that this line exists because we're going to be referencing it later on then
we just have two more lines and these are going to be a little more straightforward.
Basically we're going to query for that user.
So I'll say filter by where user name is equal to user name.
So we're going to some user name page and we want to query for that username and there's a method that
we can say first or for 0 4.
So the reason for that is maybe someone decides to manually type out a user name but they typed out
wrong instead of accidentally just getting some sort of major error.
We can return a 404 page that says hey that user doesn't exist.
So we're going to say either grab the first user since user names are unique or return for 0 for error
meaning that page isn't found.
Then once we have that user We're going to grab their blog posts.
So we're going to grab from the blog post remember we created this in the models and we're going to
query filter by author is equal to user.
Remember the foreign key relationship that we created was called author.
So if I go back to my models over here remember that I said the back reference was author for this user's
posts.
So that's what I'm calling here.
Author is equal to user for that query on the blog post.
So once I've done that I'm going to order these blog posts so I'll say filter by author.
Equals to user.
And then underscore or excuse me in order underscore by an I'm going to order them by their blog post
dates and then I can call descending order.
And then here this is where we're going to use that pages on a page in eight pages equal to page and
then say per page.
Is equal to five.
So there's a lot going on here want to zoom out to make sure you kind of get the whole scope of everything.
Basically we're requesting a particular page.
So this allows us to actually cycle through the pages then we're grabbing whatever user there is or
returning it for 0 4.
Once we have that user We're going to query all our blog posts where the author happens to be equal
to that particular user.
And then we're going to order them by the date of that blog post in descending order.
So a lot of this has to do with our.
So specifically filter by an order by if you want to learn more about those.
That's where you're really going to dive more into the sequel alchemy documentation and then that page
and that actually allows us to have pages sorgen to say pages equal to the current page.
So that's where this request comes from.
And then per page you can edit this if you want.
You can only show two blog posts per page or three blog posts per page.
It's up to you you can play around with that value we're setting it to five per page.
Then once we've done all that we're going to say return rendered template in word and create a template
called Duzer underscore blog posts.
H T.M. passen all the blog posts so I'll say blog post is equal to blog posts and then we'll also pasand
the user so we can play around with that user information.
So that means in the very next lecture we need to do is actually create this template so we have three
lines of code here.
But they're doing a ton of work.
So let's make sure we truly understand what's going on here.
When you go ahead and pasan a user name so you go to your website slashy username.
We're going to pass in that username.
We're going to grab whatever page you're currently on so this page right here that's connected to the
page call here for showing it a certain number of blog posts per page.
Then we're going to actually query for that user.
So grab the user or attorney 404 error.
Once you have that user we filter the blog posts based off where the author matches that user.
Then we order by the blog post state in descending order and then paginate based off how many block
those who want to show per page and then we're going to render this in our template user blog post.
H t m l where we plant passen that list of block blog posts so later on we'll be using a little bit
template logically for posts and blog posts and then abusing the user there.
OK so up next we want to do is really hone down on this user blog post each T.M..
This is probably the most complex view we've done so far and it's quite different than other views because
we haven't really seen something like this in the course yet so take your time with this one and make
sure you kind of copy and paste from the notes really well because lots potentials for typos here.
OK.
Coming up next we're going to develop this template for the user blog posts.
We'll see if.